How many of you finished that one?
Did we have time?
Okay, cool, yeah,
I thought it was relatively quick,
there was just lots to read.
So one of the things in this exercise
six is progressive enhancement.
One of the things that I wanted to draw
home is that everything we've done so
far doesn't need client-side
JavaScript at all.
So, in the background here,
I encouraged you to go to the root.tsx,
which we have not looked at so far.
But this is your component
that's responsible for
rendering everything between
the opening HTML and the closing HTML.
So if something doesn't show up in
the body of your HTML, it's your fault,
because you're the one who's rendering
that, remix doesn't touch that.
Remix does give you some
components that you can render
that are built into the compiler and
everything.
But yeah, you're the one rendering it.
So if you don't want JavaScript on
the client, then you just get rid of it,
you're gonna comment out the scripts.
And because remix is server-rendered,
then the entire app still works.
I can still go to post, I can go,
let's not slow this down,
we don't need that for right now.
I can go to the homepage,
I can go to the login, all of this.
You'll just notice we're doing full
page refreshes between these, but
the app works.
That's what progressive
enhancement is about,
a foundation of a functional app, right?
And so many apps today do not function
without client-side JavaScript.
Now, there are some apps where you
could argue that they probably would
be impossible to work without JavaScript.
And you're probably thinking of
Figma maybe as a good example.
And well, yes, technically,
that probably wouldn't work very
well without client-side JavaScript.
It actually is possible,
let me see if I can find it really quick.
Jjenzz, yep, nope.
There it is.
So Jenna has done a lot of really
cool stuff with remix, and
she built a Figma that works
without client-side JavaScript.
I don't know if I would actually
wanna use this to design anything,
but the point is that you can
actually start with a foundation of
something that works for most apps.
How many here building Figma?
I didn't think so.
So most of our apps can mostly
work without JavaScript, and
then we use JavaScript to make it better.
And I'm not just talking about
navigating around these different pages,
I'm actually talking about the full
experience, even mutations,
New Post, new-post-yo, This is new,
I keep doing that, new.
And dude, totally created.
Now, I can go to my post page, and
there's my new post, and there it is.
Whole thing works,
no JavaScript necessary.
So that's what we've done so far.
There are a couple of
reasons why this is cool.
First of all, I would say,
most people probably don't mind
having JavaScript on the page.
Most of the time, that JavaScript
is gonna load, most of the time,
the user hasn't disabled JavaScript.
So ability to work without JavaScript by
itself is not all that interesting to me.
Especially, since the user
experience isn't the best,
you're getting full page refreshes and
loading more data than you maybe need and
stuff like that, because you're
reloading the HTML over and over.
So that part's not what is cool to me.
The cool thing to me is that now that
I do have JavaScript on the page,
I can go to post-admin and
I can go create new post.
And whether or
not I have JavaScript on the page,
if I'm on a slow 3G network, and
here, let's disable the cache.
And let's say that I'm just
working on a really slow network,
as soon as this HTML loads,
that really slow network.
I hit Create Post, and
my JavaScript's still downloading, but
I was able to hit Create Post and
the whole thing still worked.
So as important as it is for
us to make our initial page loads fast,
and hydration runs quick and all,
reduce the amount of JavaScript
that we're loading on the browser,
that all is important.
But it becomes a little less
important when your app actually can
still function before
the JavaScript finishes loading.
Because we code split so
efficiently and everything,
you're actually probably not loading
a silly amount of JavaScript anyway.
And yeah, but
it becomes less of a problem.
So that's one thing that I like a lot,
it works before the JavaScript
finishes loading.
But even better than that, what I love
about the no JavaScript functionality or
support, the progressive enhancement
support of remix, is that it is the proof
that you don't need application state
management to build a remix app.
So, I've told you that and
I've said that, and maybe you believe me,
hopefully you believe me, I don't know,
don't just believe me,
you should test it out for yourself.
But this is my evidence that we
can build a full application that
works without JavaScript.
So how could you possibly say that you
need a state management library for it?
If it works without JavaScript clearly,
there's no state management.
So I think that's pretty cool.
There you go, that's evidence.
No JavaScript necessary means that
there's no state management necessary,
which is half of the code that you write.
So you can get a lot more done.
And that's what happened with my side,
I was building this,
I was not planning on user accounts.
I was not planning on
the call Kent podcast,
where you can literally record
a call in your browser, and
then I get that recording, and
I can respond with my own recording,
and we get that stuck together
in a podcast episode.
I was not planning on doing that, but
I'm like, well, I finished a little faster
than I was expecting, so
let's see how far I can take this thing.
And eventually, I think maybe I'll turn
this thing into [LAUGH] a business,
cuz it's pretty cool.
Would you pay three bucks a month for
that?
I don't know, maybe.
And so
many things I was not planning on doing,
the blog post recommendations at the
bottom of every one of these blog posts.
You get a recommendation to three
other blog posts that are related
to what you're reading, something you've
never read before at least recently,
and some other random
thing that's popular post.
It's different every time, you refresh
the page, it's gonna be different.
I just like a lot of different ideas,
like, wow,
look at all these cool thing I can do on
top of what I've already done just because
I don't have to worry about
application state management.
So it makes me so much more productive.
So no wonder I joined the team,
because I'm like,
this is all I wanna do now,
because I love this thing a lot.
Okay, so hopefully,
that point makes sense.
So we worked before the JavaScript loads,
we work without the JavaScript, so
why do we have JavaScript?
What's the point?
Why do we put JavaScript on the page?
Because we can make the user experience
better, we can enhance it with JavaScript.
It is not enabled by JavaScript,
it's enhanced by JavaScript, and
the enhancements that
you can make are great.
And the mental model is as simple as
full page refresh on every navigation,
but the capabilities are what
our users are expecting, and
that is what makes this so awesome.
So with JavaScript enabled,
and if we slow this
down as a slow 3G network,
I hit Create Post.
And we see that there's
a network request going on, but
the user gets no feedback
whatsoever when they click on that.
Well, sort of, it kind of messes up,
because when I click Create post,
then the focus,
it makes it look like something's
happening, nothing's happening.
There's no feedback for
the user that a request is being made.
Without JavaScript,
if I go Disable JavaScript,
we actually have a better user experience.
So what Disable JavaScript does is
it rejects all JavaScript scripts
that you're trying to load, so
the browser doesn't load any of those.
So we don't have any
JavaScript on the page.
If I click Create Post now,
we at least get a favicon spinning.
So, what we've done by not
thinking about pending UI
is we progressively enhance with
JavaScript to a worse experience.
What's the opposite of enhancement?
I don't know, it's like we've dehanced
[LAUGH] our experience with JavaScript,
that's nonsense.
And of course,
none of you would ever do that, I know,
you'd never make a worse experience, you'd
always think about penning UI, and so
that's what we're going to do.
We'll go into our app > routes
> posts > admin > and new.
And in here, this is all client-side
stuff, so we've taken care of the backend,
that's all done.
All we have to do is on the client,
we need to know when the user has made
a submission so that we can say, hey,
we're creating, this thing is happening.
And because remix is the one managing that
fetch request for us, it's the one where
we're gonna get the information
about transitions that are going on.
Now, transitions are not just for
posting or submitting a form,
this is anytime you transition
between different routes, okay?
So we're gonna get transition
from useTransition.
And again, it's not React,
it is remix-run/react.
And by the way, I should mention,
like I said, we will probably change that.
And if we do, of course, we'll probably
support the old version or whatever.
So we don't break your stuff or we'll have
a code mod or whatever, but in the repo,
I made this CHANGELOG.md file.
And so if eventually that does ship and
that changes,
I will add that note to the changelog.
So hi, folks watching in the future,
just check that changelog to see whether
that piece has changed as well as like
the file system routes and stuff.
Okay, so now we have the transition,
the transition is gonna tell us some
stuff about where we're going and
what what's happening,
what is causing this transition.
So we're gonna get our isCreating
state from, nice try, compiler.
But actually, transition has a submission.
It may or may not have a submission,
if we're just clicking on a link,
there's no submission there.
The user is not submitting any data,
they're just clicking on a link.
But if they're submitting a form,
that is going to have a submission.
And so we're gonna just say,
we're creating if the transition has
a submission, so
we'll just booleanify that thing.
I know some of you are probably like,
why didn't you just not note that thing?
I'm like, you got to be honest.
Is this more simple than
just Booleaning it?
I don't know, a double bang, I don't know.
I mean, if you wanna save your keystrokes,
that's fine with me.
But okay, so now we know that whether
we're in a creating state based on whether
there's a transition.
So our designer just said, hey,
just disabled the button and
update the text content for the button,
we don't have a loading spinner for you.
But you could render a loading spinner,
you do whatever you want to,
have a little bar that
goes across the top,
because you can actually use
this anywhere in your app.
I could put this in the route
of my app and have a global bar.
You do whatever you want,
because there's only one transition
that can happen at a time.
You can't submit multiple forms at once,
and
we'll talk about that in
the advanced remix workshop.
But for
these navigation based transitions,
you can only navigate
to one place at a time.
Even if you submit over there and
you're like, never mind,
I'm submitting over there,
you no longer have that old one, right?
So there's only one transition,
that's why this is global, and
you can have it anywhere.
Okay, so we'll take this as creating, and
we're gonna say disabled if
we are in isCreating state.
And then if we're isCreating,
then Creating..., otherwise, Create Post.
And that's it, put it on.
So yeah, okay,
I'm still on slow 3G, that's good.
So waiting for
the JavaScript to finish loading here.
I don't wanna wait, that's rattling.
Okay, now, throttle slow 3G, and
I say, well, whatever, I don't care.
We hit Create Post, we get Creating....
So now, we have progressively
enhanced to a better experience,
we're not doing a full page reload and
all of that nonsense.
We are staying on the page,
we're doing a fetch request, but
we've hooked into remix, so remix can
tell us the navigation that's going on,
which is a form submission so
we can say creating.
And that was the exercise,
there's the extra credit.
That's slightly different topic, but
it was not a lot of code changes but
a fair bit of concepts,
hopefully, it all made sense.